PEP 757: Answer open questions (#3980)
python/peps: peps/pep-0757.rst

If later there are use cases for arbitrary layouts, new APIs can be
added.

Don't add :c:func:`PyLong_GetNativeLayout` function
---------------------------------------------------

Currently, all required information for :class:`int` import/export is
already available via :c:func:`PyLong_GetInfo()` or
:data:`sys.int_info`.  Native endianness of "digits" and current order
of digits (least significant digit first) --- is a common denominator of
all libraries for aribitrary precision integer arithmetic.

The problem is that this API is for the stable ABI and not only for
CPython, but for any Python implementation. For example, the JVM based
GraalPy uses Java's ``BigDecimal`` for "big" integers, which has
compatible internal representation: 4 bytes per digit, big-endian, most
significant byte is in the zeroth element.

People relying on CPython implementation details may assume CPython's
:c:struct:`PyLongLayout` without even querying it and will just use the

> other APIs. Providing a convenient :c:func:`PyLong_GetNativeLayout`

Author: > what's prevent them hardcode PyLong_GetNativeLayout() output?

Nothing. It's just that PyLong_GetNativeLayout() gives directly C types, so it's easy to use.

> other APIs. Providing a convenient :c:func:`PyLong_GetNativeLayout`

Reviewer: Well, the only argument is "easy to use":)

function is a way to reduce the risk of relying on CPython
implementation details. By the way, the CPython native layout can also

> evolve in future Python versions.

Author: Not adding new fields, but change layout values (use a different layout).

> evolve in future Python versions.

Reviewer: In either case I don't see problems for both variants.

If later there are use cases for arbitrary layouts, new APIs can be
added.

Don't add :c:func:`PyLong_GetNativeLayout` function
---------------------------------------------------

> Currently, all required information for :class:`int` import/export is
> already available via :c:func:`PyLong_GetInfo()` or
> :data:`sys.int_info`.  Native endianness of "digits" and current order
> of digits (least significant digit first) --- is a common denominator of
> all libraries for aribitrary precision integer arithmetic.
> 
> The problem is that this API is for the stable ABI and not only for
> CPython, but for any Python implementation. For example, the JVM based
> GraalPy uses Java's ``BigDecimal`` for "big" integers, which has
> compatible internal representation: 4 bytes per digit, big-endian, most
> significant byte is in the zeroth element.
> 
> People relying on CPython implementation details may assume CPython's
> :c:struct:`PyLongLayout` without even querying it and will just use the
> other APIs. Providing a convenient :c:func:`PyLong_GetNativeLayout`
> function is a way to reduce the risk of relying on CPython
> implementation details. By the way, the CPython native layout can also
> evolve in future Python versions.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, most required information for :class:`int` import/export is
already available via :c:func:`PyLong_GetInfo()` (and :data:`sys.int_info`).
We also can add more (like order of digits), this interface doesn't poses
any constraints on future evolution of the :type:`PyLongObject`.

The problem is that the :c:func:`PyLong_GetInfo()` returns a Python object,
:term:`named tuple`, not a convenient C structure and that might distract
people from using it in favor e.g. of current semi-private macros like :c:macro:`!PyLong_SHIFT` and :c:macro:`!PyLong_BASE`.

```

Reviewer: I'm still not sure if we should rush with this change.  But if so, please take look on my edits.

I think the only arguments is: it's easy to use.  (BTW, it seems (I did GH search) the PyLong_GetInfo() isn't used outside of CPython.)
